thank you guys for coming out to learn
about replacing your old style windows
and dialogues with nip files now what
are we talking about when we're talking
about old style dialogues well
specifically this this refers to using
the dialogue manager and the resource
manager to pull in your dialogues and
then using api's like modal dialogue to
go into a modal situation and handle all
the dispatching yourself so some of the
things I hope you learn today is to how
to move your existing resource based
user interface up to nibs by getting
them into interface builder then we will
talk about getting into simplifying your
event handling using the new
technologies that are available in the
high level toolbox I want you also to
start using the standard window handler
if you're not already and this is so the
tool box can provide standard behaviors
for you and eliminate a lot of code that
you need to take care of and also you
learn why you'll need to adopt a chive
you the steps of getting your user
interface up to a modern into a nib and
using the modern technologies in the
toolbox are pretty simple first you need
to import your dialogues into nibs and
you can do this using an importer that's
built into interface builder now I
specifically talked about getting it in
from resource files but the same
techniques will apply after that
regardless of how you built your
interface on a using a flat flattened
interface format then at runtime you'll
actually need to load in that interface
in display it on the screen for the user
then you need to rewrite how you handle
events because the old way of handling
events using modal dialogues isn't going
to work once you import it up to nibs
and then if you're using modality
because you're putting up a dialogue
that needs to interact with a with a
user all in a modal situation there's
separate ways of there's a different way
of dealing with modality that I'll talk
about as well
and then finally if you have custom
content that's being drawn in your
dialogue we're going to encourage you to
start using a chive use specifically for
performance if you switch into
compositing mode this has to be done why
would you want to convert to nim's why
do you want to make this transition the
single biggest reason is because we're
doing a lot of work in the toolbox to
improve performance give you new
features like new widgets that are now
available and the dialogue manager and
using the resources to build your
interface it just won't cut it
localization is also easier if you're if
you built your interface with resources
generally how you ship those is by
packaging the resource with the
application and when you need to
localize you need to build a separate
version of your application to deploy
using nibs in actually specifically
using application bundles this is so
much easier because you can localize
your application in the nib and then you
can deploy one binary or package across
from different localization maintenance
building your interface and modifying it
is so much easier when you're using nibs
if you're using the dialogue manager
right now you're probably aware of all
the problems if you need to delete an
eye as an item that's in your dialogue
or add an item and you have to keep the
dialogue item list in sync with the
numbers that your your code thinks that
those dialogue items are and that can
just be a nightmare also we're adding
new features in the toolbox and as we do
this these features will be added to
interface builder and you can just use
them in your interface building
interface with ib is so much easier also
we have aqua interface guidelines that
are built in but previously when you
were building your interface you would
have to look at the H I guidelines
figure out like exactly how many pixels
the button needs to be from this other
button and to the edge of the window
well all of this is built into interface
builder and I'll give you a
demonstration of how you can do that you
can also touch your interface
immediately and then once you get your
interface loaded and start handling
events it's just so much easier i'm sure
you'll agree some of the things that guy
mentioned in the last session
was about compositing mode now this is a
huge win in terms of performance
compositing mode is based on
invalidation model so you're not doing
unnecessary drawing and redrawing
controls more often than necessary it
also allows overlapping of views and if
you saw the demo before the machine
crashed in the last session you were
able to see all these views that were
rotating sudden some you could actually
see through because they were
translucent and it just gives it's a
better experience for the user and it
also gives better performance so the
first step of getting up into the modern
tool box is to get your inner your
interface into interface builder you can
do this one of two ways if you have a
resource-based user interface you can
import that like I mentioned in
interface builder from the import menu
or you could go about building your
interface manually I'll talk about why
you might want to do that in a moment
but if you need to import your your
resource based interface it's just
really easy from the file menu you
select to import the resource file you
select which objects to import with with
the dialog that pops up once you select
which object to import you hit it and
then interface builder will create a new
nib and pull in your your interface it's
also really nice because if you have
controls that are embedded in your
dialogues this all just be pulled in
automatically by the importer
alternatively you can build the
interface manually and you might want to
do this because your interface was like
may perhaps poorly designed or maybe
didn't quite follow the Aqua interface
guidelines and you want to start taking
advantage of the guides of their
interface builder or maybe you just want
to start at taking advantage in adopting
new widgets that are available right now
either method you choose once it's in
earth in interface builder and the steps
are the same you can bring up the
inspector window and start editing
control properties you can also take
advantage of a technology called HIV
layout and this means that you can set
layouts in the sense of how they are
bound to its a like for a view how it's
bound to its pair
so as you resize a window these can all
be handled by reef lowing the contents
of your window this can all be handled
using HIV layups and you don't have to
write any code to do this also in the
interface you can assign a chive you IDs
and that's so you can access your
controls nhi command which are going to
be sent when certain actions are
performed in your interface also make
sure once your interfaces interface
builder that you have turned on the
standard window handler now what this
does because it allows the toolbox to
take care of all of this you know the
mundane stuff the stuff that everybody
has to do like resizing the window or
dragging the window around and it will
handle a like control tracking like when
the user clicks in the window it will
handle what you know what controls are
tracked and then lets you know that
something interesting has happened then
you can also test the interface and make
sure that everything works out the way
you want it to work so that steps is
fairly easy just get it into interface
builder save out that nib file now at
runtime how do you actually load that
interface there's just really easy steps
you have to first get a reference to the
nib then if you have a menu bar that's
in the nib you just go ahead and you
load that in and set that for your
application you also extract the windows
by just using a very simple API to get
your window at now this will pull in all
of the controls that are associated with
that window and instantiate them at that
time as well and finally after you get
the information out of that nib you
release the reference to the nib and
you're done and you do this using these
api to create a new reference you just
call the api creates nib reference and
you pass in the name of your nib minus
the nib extension if you have a menu bar
in there and you want to set that menu
bar for your application you call the
api set menu bar from lib now i want to
pull into one of my windows so I call
create window for nib passing on the
name of my window this window is going
to be pulled in from interface or from
your nibs but keep in mind that for
performance reasons because maybe you
need to preflight the dialog you know
add some information into some
deals for instance the window is
initially invisible so if you want it to
show you have to tell show window
finally when you're done just use the
API disposed nib reference you don't
need to cash this new preference for
later use in fact it's just better when
you're done using it just dispose it if
you need to use it again go ahead and
create another new reference to that nib
so once you have your interface loaded
how do I actually access the items that
are in there this too is just really
easy using interface builder if you
select on it control or any item in your
interface in interface builder you can
bring up the inspector window and go
look at the control segment of it and
you can assign a control ID or an H I've
uid to that control now control ID is a
signature which is for character code
and keep in mind with four character
codes all lowercase is reserved for
Apple use and I'll mix an uppercase you
can use as much as you want and then
also an ID so you can use signatures to
represent all of one type of control in
an ID for each individual control in
that segment of your interface for
instance and then at runtime
programmatically you would use the API a
chive you find by ID and that's so you
can actually find that controlling up in
your face and extinct grab a reference
to the control in code this is how you
do it you define an HIV ID which
represent the signature and ID that
you've set in interface builder you call
the HIV find by ID API and it returns
your control reference to you and you
can just go to town do whatever you need
to do with that control so let's go take
a quick demo and I'll show you those
initial steps of importing your
interface and then loading that
interface into your application
before I get started I have to give you
a standard disclaimer I am NOT a user
interface designer at all i just sit at
my computer i punch numbers in to make
this stuff work so well what you see
like may amaze you and astound you of
how brilliant it is i really highly
recommend you don't design your
interface like this so let's say that i
haven't I wanted to have a really fast
music editing application so I just whip
something up really fast in carbon and
it looks something like this okay now
actually I mean this is just a mock-up
it doesn't really do anything I mean the
only thing it does really well is not
get a spinny cursor but if I want to get
information about a song that I've
created I go down to my song info and I
bring up a dialog now this dialog is
loaded in from a resource and then it's
using modal dialog to actually do some
information so any song info palette you
know wouldn't be complete without having
a really cool equalizer view in it so
you can see like the equalizer so at
this point I go here now this is my user
interface skills like behold quick draw
rectangles don't do this on your
interface it's just a demo but you can
choose different equalizer settings oh
so beautiful so cool and because last
time you blew out your dad speakers you
want to be able to clip the sound at
certain areas so we go track when you
want to you know how loud the volume can
get before it start clicking the music
off I don't know if this is how real
music programs work that just makes a
really good demo so the interface may
look simple clicking around does some
things there's actually a lot of code
going on behind the scenes to actually
get this up and running and then your
boss comes in and says I need you to
create some new summary information in
there like a text field that you can
types as much as you want in your
thinking man using the dialogue manager
how am I going to do that this might be
a great opportunity to start learning
about nib so let's actually go look at
the code see what I'm doing in here this
is a big weight next event based
application and I just want
to prove to you that this you can do all
of these steps in piecemeal you don't
have to convert all of your application
at once you can do one dialogue at a
time so I'm going to maintain this has a
big weight next event based application
when I create that dialogue and you can
see there's a lot of code that's being
run here i'm using the resource manager
to get a new dialogue i set up the
dialogue and when i go do that i
actually I took that area where I was
doing the custom drawing that's just a
user paint so I'm installing a user
paying drop rocks so when the dialogue
needs to repaint that area it calls my
drop rocks which is where i'm doing my
custom drawing then after its set up I
call modal dialog now I pass in a modal
filter proc because I actually want to
handle behavior in that custom area as
well and that was to modify that
clipping thing then when modal dialog
returns I'm switching off of the item
that was returned in order to figure out
how to modify the interface so there's a
lot of code going on in here and I want
to eliminate that especially since I
have to add new features because my boss
told me to so let's learn how to do that
in interface builder we go to the file
menu import import resource file we
select our resource it asks which
dialogues and menus do I want to pull in
for this example I only have one
dialogue so I only want to import that
single dialogue it import creates a new
nib slams that window into their let's
go look at that interface now so you can
see it did it did a very good job that's
exactly to what the interface looked
like now we have to do some triage maybe
there's some things that didn't import
correctly in my case when I set up the
resource I had to go through some hoops
actually get that pop-up button in there
and interface builder displays this as a
custom control so I could go in and
rebuild that by creating a new pop up in
here but I've already done that in a
separate nib for to keep this demo kind
of rolling along
so I'm just going to put that in here I
also decide that I want to pre-populate
this stuff so I don't have to do this in
code so i can do all of this with in
interface builder by studying the stuff
up i also encode initially when i was
setting up the dialogue i'm calling set
dialogue default item and set dialogue
canceled item in order so the dialogue
manager knows which items are the
default in camp williams well i can do
that with an interface builder by
selecting just a button in this little
interface inspector window this is going
to be the cancel button I want to make
sure that I have the standard handler on
because this is what's going to handle
all of my my low level events for me for
free and then I want to start mucking
around and see that you can see these
interface guides like you can see that
my window is probably lay out
incorrectly in the first place so you
can see that interface bullet presents
these guys tells you how far away the
controls need to be from each other some
new features I want to take advantage of
perhaps our to make the window resizable
so I click that and if i want to make
the window resizable i might as well
start taking advantage of new
technologies like HIV layout so in this
case I decide that I want to bind be ok
and cancel buttons to the right side and
the bottom of that window so as the
window is resized it reflows correctly
so I do that again over in this
inspector window by selecting layout
binding to the right and and the bottom
doing the same for this view the right
and the bottom and like I mentioned
before my boss really wanted me to add
in a new text field for information so
I'm going to move all of this
information down pull in a textview up
in the layout menu I can embed that in a
scrollview to make it scrollable and
just so it's not confusing i'm going to
add a text field here
[Music]
No
we can run the interface we can test the
interface with an interface builder by
just allowing it to run brings up a
simulator you can see that there's the
window I can go ahead and type now I've
done no no code yet this is just
interface construction when I think I
recall that I want to do is these these
text fields are using the old edit text
control and I want to get some really
cool anti-aliasing so I want to use the
Edit unicode touch control this is just
a check box over here and finally I
decide that I want to save this this is
my interface I need to save it out so I
hit save give it a name where to save it
and the integration between interface
builder and Xcode is excellent it knows
what i have a project up already and
that i want to embed that nib in that
project so i go ahead and add it now i
need to actually write some code to
drive this interface now in my main code
I was pulling up that that dialogue
using this guy and I want to instead
write some code that's going to do it
the new way now when I say new way I say
new but i don't mean it's like a lot of
work to do very simple i create a nib
reference to my nib I extract the window
from that nib I show it dispose the nib
reference and we're done let's cross our
fingers and make sure this builds there
we go we have my same familiar interface
I want to bring up my song info and boom
there it is the interface works I wrote
no code to actually initialize these
text fields all the behavior works you
know I can drag these things around you
can see that my popup is here and does
correct tracking and I've written no
code so let's move back to the slides
and move on
so again import your interface into IB
modify the attributes if you need to do
the modification like when I took the
edittext control and I made it an edit
Unicode text control then you can add in
new views as they become available with
in interface builder make sure that the
standard window handler is on that
allows you to resize your window move
the window around without writing any
code to do that work you have any more
questions about the api's that are
available for interface builder go check
out the IV carbon runtime header which
is in the H I toolbox framework now it's
not a mean it's kind of brain-dead
there's only seven API is in there three
of them are associated with nib
management so there's only four API is
getting your interface out of there so
we had interface that was up and running
but it didn't actually do anything
interesting so it doesn't do exactly
what the interface was doing when it was
a dialogue manager base because I had a
whole bunch of code that was behind that
running it so now we need to start
handling event now the old way of
handling events whether using modal
dialogues or wait next event is using
this model you the application go sit in
an event loop and start pulling events
out of the queue then you figure out
where that event needs to go so you
start dispatching it wasn't in a window
by calling find window if it was in the
windows and in the control you call fine
control and then you start tracking the
control if you need to and then you tell
finally tell the toolbox what it is that
you did now this is cumbersome because
you're writing a lot of boilerplate code
everybody's got to do it it seems like a
really nice place that this gets
implemented in the toolbox and let us do
the work so this is the new model of
doing events and when I say new I mean
like carbon event forward you tell the
toolbox what events you're interested in
hearing about the toolbox sits in its
own event loop figures out where these
things need to go and then dispatches
them to you if you're interested in so
it makes the model so much easier you're
not doing all of this extra boilerplate
code that you don't need to and you get
notified only about the events that
you're interested in so events are
separated into different classes and
kinds there's about a dozen or so
different classes of types of events my
control window
command event and then there is split
into different kinds so what type of
kind what kind of event that type of her
that class referred to I hope that made
sense so for example in the case when
you need to know to be notified when the
enabled state of your control has
changed you register for a key event
class control cave and control enabled
state changed event that's interesting
but how do you actually go about doing
that like I mentioned earlier you
specify the events that you're
interested in then you install a handler
on an event target now an event target
is where these events are going to be
sent to and there's various targets like
there's control targets a user focus
window application and when I say
installing a handler what you're really
doing at that point is telling a toolbox
I'm interested in these events call my
call back when these events come in so
then you go implement the handler so
when your callback is called what what
do you need to happen to your interface
at that point and then events can go
through different propagation routes so
for example when commands come into your
app your your handler if you don't
handle that event you want it to
continue out in propagating because
maybe the toolbox will give you some
free behavior the return value controls
how that event is propagated if you
return it then not handled error
propagation will continue it and maybe
the toolbox will handle it for you and
any other value of return will terminate
propagation it's as if you handled it
and we're done so let's walk through an
example of doing that like I mentioned
an H I command is a high-level type of
event to signify that some command has
happened you don't care where the event
came from you just want to handle this
pets of event a good example is if you
had a new button in your interface with
in interface builder you would select
the new button you'd go into the
inspector window and you can assign a
command to that button so when the user
clicks on the button this new command is
sent to your application a new is a
standard H I command so you can select
it from the pop-up you can also create
your own types of command then encode
you specify what events you're
interested in
you pass in an array to our api's but in
this particular example I'm only
interested in an H I command event so
I'm interested in the class command
command process event then I want to
hear this on the application event
target because like I mentioned the
commands what can be sent to the user
focus target and if that doesn't handle
it'll go out to the window and if the
window doesn't handle it would go out to
the application so the application is
kind of a catch-all for commands so I'm
going to install my handler on the
application event handler on the
application event target excuse me and
then I tell it that I'm interested in it
or I want it to call my callback handler
at this point so you load your interface
in the users using it and then he clicks
on the new button the H I command is
sent the toolbox called your command
event handler there's different
information packed in that event and all
of this is documented within the carbon
event dot H header so it'll tell you as
events come in what type of information
is packaged in the event in this case
there's an H I command so we call get
event parameter to extract the H I
command from the event and then we can
switch what kind of event it was in this
case we see that it was a new event so
we go and we create our new document
window now we talked about dealing with
events within your user interface how do
you deal with dialogue modality I'm sure
your most of your dialogues have had to
deal with modality basically in the old
way of doing things you are calling
modal dialogue and a loop and handling
updates using a filter proc and for one
reason or another that then we change
things so that didn't work and you had
to install update carbon event handlers
on your non front windows in order to
get the update event so you have to
write determine event handlers for other
ones if you're going to do that you
might as well just start doing things
the way we expect you and want you to do
go through the steps I've pasta bought
already convert your dialogue to a nib
use the standard ok and cancel commands
for your ok and cancel button make your
interface carbon event driven by using
the standard H I commands or you can
even use your own
event command classes that you define
yourself and when you go when you need
to be modal use the API run app modal
loop for window this will put your
window into a modal situation and that
function will not return until quit at
moda loot for window is called and i'll
show you the example of how to do that
and then eventually this is you'd start
using sheets instead of going at modal
you might just need to go window modal
so where it's appropriate we encourage
you to use sheets to get window modality
so let's walk through an example of
using modality in this fashion this is
very similar to the previous H I command
example I gave in this case again we're
only going to we only will go out of the
middle situation when the ok button is
clicked which is sends out a command
event so in this case we're doing the
same thing by get registering for a
command command process event and also
when we install a handler for a target
one of the parameters is a void star so
we can pass anything we want there and
then when our callback is called that
void stars return to us so I'm taking
advantage of that in this particular
example by passing in the window as that
void star parameters then I call run at
moda loop for window now as I mentioned
this function is not going to return
until quit at moda loop for window it's
called so the event system takes over
start dispatching events as they come in
so and then when we're in here perhaps
the user clicks on the new or the ok
button at that time your event handler
is called and as I mentioned we passed
in our window in the void star parameter
so we cast that to a window because we
know that's our window again we extract
the event parameter we check to see that
it was the ok with a standard ok command
which it was and we go ahead and we call
quit at moda loop for window at that
point when this function returns your
previous call the run at moda looper
window will return and you can continue
processing with drought so that's how
you would deal with modality in this new
world
so custom content in my example I had
that really cool equalizer area over
there and that dialogue and how am I
going to start dealing with that now
using this new way of handling dialogues
you need to think about two different
paths here you want to remain non
compositing or go compositing now the
advantage of compositing are great in
terms of performance your it's an
invalidation model so you're not
constantly redrawing when you don't need
to you also can have overlapping views
it doesn't look ugly but because these
are the controls are racing behind
themselves if you want to continue using
non compositing windows and you're doing
all of your drawing and user pains it's
okay but we prefer that you actually
start using HIVs because this is what
we're focusing our energy on moving
forward especially if you're using
compositing or drawing directly the
window you have to start taking
advantage of a chive use so you'll have
to write your own custom views to do
this custom content and then embed that
in the window I'm not going to go into
any detail about how to write your own a
chive you actually David's going to
cover that tomorrow in session for 33
modernizing your custom controls to use
a chive you so I'm not going to go any
further about describing how to do that
but I will use this in my example and
just show you how to use a premade HIV
as custom content so I like I mentioned
when I was walking through my example
the old way of dealing with your
dialogue was during initialization if
you had this custom content you would
set a drawing proc and that was to deal
with a drawing and then when you needed
to go into the event loop and start
handling events you would call modal
dialog with a filter proc if you needed
to handle a tracking in your custom
content so at that point you'd be
handling some behavior you handling the
behavior of tracking and then once you
return for a modal dialog you'd get this
item hit and you'd start handling
behavior there too so there's different
areas of code and then in some cases
you'd actually be installing action proc
to deal with live action's too so
there's different areas of your code
where you're dealing with this behavior
and all the behavior you're right for
one dialogue you can't easily rip out
and just go throw into another dialogue
so like I've been saying the new way of
doing things is using a chive you I mean
I just can't stress enough how cool this
technology's because it encapsulate the
behavior and the appearance of your
custom view all in one module so I don't
even have to know what the module does
like Joe Schmo can create one for me and
I can pull it in add it to my project
and it will just work because I don't
care about tracking myself or anything
like that so you can create the H I've
you in one of two ways if you take your
H I've you and you install it or
register it with the H I object
subclassing system during ass
initialization then you can provide a
class ID in interface builder so an
interface ability you can pull in a
custom a chive you interface builder
knows nothing about this with you but
you add a class ID and then when you
create that window in your application
it will go through and instantiate that
view it's really cool to do that and
alternatively you can embed it
programmatically you can create one
yourself and then embed it in the
dialogue or window using one of the H
I've you add sub view API for example
now we should note here a guy mentioned
this in the previous session also but I
should note that you know creating your
own custom views there's a lot of the
same code that you have to do and
there's a lot of setup associated with
it so we've written something we call a
chai framework which is a C++ mini
framework for the toolbox and it makes
the task of creating your own custom
view really simple and it's provided a
sample code so you can go through all of
the codes see what it's doing extend it
yourself add modifications if you need
to so let's go back to the demo machine
and we'll start plugging in the behavior
and pulling in our custom area in order
to get the custom content drawing
so I'm going to go back to interface
builder I'm going to assign standard
commands to my interface I told you
earlier that i want you to start taking
advantage of these standard commands are
available for the ok button in the
inspector window i'm going down to the
command pop up and i'm going to select
ok because it's the ok button for the
cancel button i'm going to go select
cancel and then I want this dialog to be
to go into a modal situation when I
bring it up so let's go check out my
code again I'm going to do a little hand
waving by turning something off here and
go looking at my new function which is
really just basically the same function
i had before where I create my nib
reference i get my window i show the
window and now since i want to make this
application or this document go modal or
the dialogue go modal i want to a stat
install a window event handler on it to
handle the ok or cancel command so I
installed my way to event handler
telling it to call dis call back when
that event comes in then I call run at
moda loop for window if this function
does not return until quit amo de loop
is called so it'll go around dandy you
know handle events do everything on its
own and then the user clicks cancel or
ok my event handler is going to be
called at this point I extract the H I
command from it I check whether it was
the standard ok or cancel command then
call quit at moda loop for window and
we're done so let's cross our fingers
here and see this thing in action again
pull up song in so I click around in the
interface and I can't because this
window is modal at this point because I
put it into a a modal state when if I
click cancel or okay the dialogue goes
away so we can see that that worked
hooray but there's still that custom
area that we want to deal with so it's
pretty obvious with I'm just using quick
draw rectangles and I have no idea how
to make a really cool interface so I
went off and I wrote this really cool
aqua interface and it's just
encapsulated by itself I don't even need
to know what the code itself does I just
pull it into my project now and it's
called eq view for equalizer the writer
of this module has told me that all i
need to do is register the view i don't
know if you can actually see that very
well you need to register the view at
application initialization time so it
during the initialization I would call
that function and that goes through and
registers the view with the H I object
subclassing system and then it provides
me the signature that this this view is
going to be so let me walk back over to
interface builder I can't use a user
paint is anymore so I ditch that I bring
up dis control pull over on a chive you
throw that in the interface and then if
you go look here in the attribute field
it has a field for a class ID now that
class ID was was broadcast to me in the
header so I can just throw it in here
and it's going to work the other thing
that the the writer of this module has
told me is that this view is going to
respond to certain commands are sent to
the window so i don't have to plug
anything in its going to just handle
events on its own and these are the
events that is interested in handling
when it when you change the equalizer
settings for instance that's why i did
some hand waving when i pulled out this
this pop-up button i've set all this up
already so when you select the classic
item it's going to send out this command
rock etc
furthermore it's going to handle a
command for clipping when you click on
this check box over here to do sound
clipping and also mute so we need to
make sure that those controls are set up
to send out that event so here I'm just
going to mimic this in the interface but
go ahead and save it let's build it and
run go check out my interface and now we
get this custom area dry night now that
too I mean this is still me making it
you know it's still pretty ugly but it's
a lot better because when you select a
different equalizer setting it just
automatically schlongs it's a new
equalizer setting that's just like cool
and then for sound clipping if I turn
this on it it responds that too and then
furthermore it handles tracking on its
own i didn't have to write any special
code for this this is all handled by the
view itself it's something i did show
earlier but as I resize the window
because the HIV layouts were set in the
nib the ok and cancel buttons are also
just refloat automatically when this was
very easy code to write and get up and
going so you have to adopt this is just
the greatest thing ever let's go back to
slides
thank you so in that last step all I did
was I made my interface carbon
event-driven and I did that by adding
command within the inspector window in
interface builder then to go modal I you
use the API run out lo de loop for
window and this is how you would deal
with modality rather than using modal
dialogue in fact when you pull in a
window from a nib it's not a dialogue
anyway so you can't really call modal
dialogues using that implement your
custom content as H I've used that new
view I just pulled in somebody gave this
module for me I plugged it in I added a
little a few features to make it respond
to commands or make command sense that
it's going to respond to and it just
worked automatically and that custom
view was written us so I'm told with a
chai framework which made it just really
easy to write that as well of course
using dialogues in this type of modality
this is just a really small case of what
we would encourage you to do for your
application also rather than using wait
next event for your event processing we
want you to get on to using run
application event loop this is going to
start dispatching events for you and
I'll Pugh eliminate your use of weight
next event I want you to start
eliminating all of these old api's
because we have really excellent
replacements for them using the new
technologies that we put in the toolbox
these AP eyes are encouraging more
efficient use of resources when you
start using run application event loop
you don't get idle time using that API
so you install carbon event loop timers
which will call you back so you can give
fine-grained control of when you need to
be called back and to make your
application more efficient on the system
and then we want you to use new
technologies that we've created such as
sheets it makes your interface just so
much better so I've been talking a lot
about this stuff and encouraging you to
do this but you're probably thinking
this transition might be really
difficult for me to do for my interface
and I just want to tell you that that's
not the case in fact navigation services
went through this transition in the
Panther time frame and I'd like to bring
up Brian purusha to talk about that
right now
thank you hurt now as Curtis mentioned
then as i'm sure you all know open and
save dialogues went through large
amounts of changes in Panther and we
added several new features including the
sidebar list view and the view history
forward and back buttons now we knew
this is going to be a major change for
navigation services and we wanted to
take this as the opportunity to move
forward from resources to knit and once
we made that change being based on ends
made it easier to adopt new features and
we began the conversion we wanted to
take an iterative approach the idea is
to start with the simplest dialogue
possible and convert it over first
because it doesn't have to be done all
at once convert that one dialogue over
and just you know work out any kinks
that there may be in the process just
get used the idea and then go on to more
complex dialogues we were able to very
easily write a little bit of wrapper
code that converted all our old dialogue
item ids to control IDs so we can
continue referring to all our controls
as we always had in the past and
continue reading them as we always have
in the past minimizing code changes the
next step is then taking views that we
loaded manually or trades manually in
our code and having interface builder do
the work for us so when the window is
pulled out of the mid those views are
loaded automatically so the trick is we
had some custom views in there like the
sidebar interface bill doesn't know
anything about the sidebar but that's
Kurt show that's earlier we can use a
custom a chive you control in interface
builder add the H object classid and
interface builder even though it knows
nothing about our custom views could
load it automatically so that was just
code we didn't have to write the next
step as guy alluded to in the last talks
was the most fun adopting the standard
event handler reason this is fun it's
because we can just click a checkbox in
interface builder and rip out tons of
custom of that handling code for the
most part navigation services we're just
interested in a deep
all behavior happening but in those
cases where somebody clicks in the
sidebar or the default button is hit
something like that and then specific
cases we destroyed a carbon event
handler to listen to those events and
can ignore everything else we let
toolbox to the driving for us now the
next step is adding compositing was
definitely the largest step but it had
the most benefits in terms of
performance because navigation services
handles or has also all standard
controls except for the couple custom
controls that we designed specifically
with compositing in mind we could just
go ahead and click the checkbox in
interface builder and adopt compositing
with two caveats the first was changed
we had to make red do a little bit of
special code to deal with the change in
parent relative coordinate spaces so we
were no longer window relative and we
had a lot of embedding and navigation
services in order to make sure that
we're always paying attention to what
our frame was relative to our parent
view and not the window the second thing
is that navigation services offers the
ability for clients to customize the
dialog so there's a custom area in the
bottom of the dialog and clients had
always been used to just being non
compositing so we needed to maintain
that behavior so we did have to add a
custom compatibility area that remain
non compositing now that navigation
services is based on mids we can take
advantage of new features in interface
builder like HIV layout and going to
that process we could keep the reflow
the entire dialogue as its resize
without having to write a whole lot of
color at all now the results for the
navigation services were great
compositing in particular gave us a
about a twenty percent speed boost
loading the dialog there is so much
redundant drawing going on before that's
just simply eliminated by the one pass
draw model of HIV the speed boosts is
also apparent in resizing the dialog
especially in
the Sheep mode despite the fact that she
spent translucent because compositing
mode is the only way to get translucent
sheets and really a great side benefit
of moving to these next VZ technologies
with that bugged and navigation services
were fixed because we were removing code
and adopting a better drawing model you
know little visual glitches as the
performance problems went away we handed
all the code off to the toolbox and let
it do the driving so there was less code
for us to test less code for there to be
bugs in and overall it was a very
straightforward process actually
smoother than we thought it would go
there were no real strong sticking
points or gotchas beyond just a couple
of the compositing changes that you need
to be aware of the that there that I
mentioned earlier so and now that
navigation service is based on mids we
can go ahead and adopt new features as
interface interface builder provides
them so we're in a great great position
going forward we really recommend that
you go through this process I think
you'll find it easier than you might
expect and it will give you a lot of
benefits in the ability to add add new
features now and in the future but that
like to go back to Kurt basically the
reason I wanted Brian to come up and
talk about the navigation services
transition was because of a comment that
he made to me on the side was the
biggest surprise about the transition
was that it wasn't that hard at all so I
really encourage you to go through this
transition as you add more features or
when your boss says you need some new
lyric dialogue in your song info panel
as you need to start adopting these new
technologies start converting it to the
new stuff because this is where we're
focusing our attention so just start
getting up to nibs start handling Asia
commands and your for your event
dispatching make your whole interface
carbon event-driven and then start using
all of these api's that do always
driving for you
like Brian mentioned like run at moda
loop for window to go modal or run out
application event loop once you get your
entire interface to be carbon
event-driven then also keep in mind if
you will have to convert your custom
content to HIV use in order to take
advantage of compositing in your
dialogues so please check out some more
information that's available something
that was really useful in preparation
for the demo was on how to move your
project from codewarrior to xcode so
because once it was in xcode the
flexibility I've actually used the
interface builder with that was it was
pretty easy to use then also the
interface builder services reference
described actually how to get your
interface going with in interface
builder so with that I'd like to bring
up that french guy over there